---
title: "Looking Ahead for 2023 Me"
date: 2023-01-15T21:08:13-05:00
# draft: true

categories: []
tags: ['Plans', '2023', 'New Year', 'Self-Improvement', 'Journalling', 'Ideas']
toc: false
author: "Daniel Park"
---

Slouching in my chair in front of my desk I looked up at my ceiling. Headphones tight across my head blasting [Frank Sinatra's "New York, New York"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TK0Vdb1RUCk&ab_channel=FrankSinatraVEVO) as the confetti fell across my laptop screen. Cameras panning to the view of Times Square with the billboards buzzing, the loving couples kissing, and people celebrating in anticipation of the new year. Yet here I was, staring blankly at my screen with no thoughts in my head until one creeped in as the clock ticked past midnight.

"What now?"

To give some context, I've been on a journey of "self-improvement", at this point, for less than two months. I've been experimenting with a different techniques and improving different aspects of my life: whether it'd be my morning routine, specific workout plans, how I'd enter a state of Deep Work, or what tasks I'd do at certain times of the day.

As I began to ponder about my 2023, I reflected back onto these past two months and year on my process of improving myself and what I could improve about my self-improvement plan (how meta.) And throughout this year I have learned a lot of things from the best kinds of workout routines to the best time to read books. Although it is a little late at this point (New Year's was two weeks ago!), I want to take the "New Year's Resolution" trend more seriously to **live without regret** by **fully optimizing my life** and dedicate time now to concrete my system of habits for the new year to achieve my long-term goals.

## I. Prioritize Things of True Value in Life

Prioritizing things of true value in life is often the most important aspect of personal growth and self-improvement. It helps you zone in on what your core ideas and beliefs about yourself that guide your actions and decisions to spend the most time and energy on things that truly matter.

Reflecting on the past year whether it was me grinding through projects to put on my resume, working out in the gym to become stronger and faster, or the endless hours of LeetCode problems I endured to face the summer software engineering interviewing season. 

For me, as of now, the most important aspects of life can be summarized into three points:

- Well-being (includes )
- Experiences
- Relationships

## II. Identity as my Ideal Self 

As James Clear says in his book [Atomic Habits](https://jamesclear.com/atomic-habits), our identity is a fundamental aspect of creating and maintaining habits. He states that our habits are not just actions we take, but also the underlying beliefs, values and sense of self that drive those actions. By having identity-based habits, which are habits that are consistent with who you want to be as a person and how you want to live your life, it becomes easier to stick to them and to make them a part of your everyday routine. 

I could write an entire thesis on his book on the psychology of habit-making (which may be something I do in the future), but to keep it simple: I want to picture myself and establish my identity that can be seperated into three categories:

**Physical Identity: Be an Attractive Man**
- Training and Eating as an Athlete
- Aesthetically Pleasing Body
- Looksmaxing

As the saying goes, "A Strong Body Makes the Mind Strong." [Research has shown](https://health.gov/news/202112/physical-activity-good-mind-and-body) that regular physical exercise can have a positive impact on cognitive function, including memory, attention, and decision-making. Exercise can also help to reduce symptoms of stress, anxiety, and depression.

**Mental Identity: A Forever Student**
- Software Engineering
- Philosophy
- Business

I am already a student-athlete strength training pretty consistently for about two years

**Emotional Identity: Mindfulness**
- Confident
- Self-loving
- Mindful
- Social 

## III. Set up a System of Habits

And finally, I can set up a consistent schedule of atomic habits that reaffirm my prioritize my goals and identities.

**Mental Identity**
1. Read a Book Every Two Weeks
2. Write a Blog Every Two Weeks
3. Complete a LeetCode Question Daily

**Physical Identity**
1. Strength Training in the Morning
2. Cardio Activity in the Evening
3. Learn more about Looksmaxing (Styling, Grooming)

**Emotional Identity**
1. Meditation
2. Gratitude Journalling
3. Deep Journalling

# Conclusion

Of course, this is not a perfect life plan to live by that is truth set in stone for anyone's life, let alone my life. 

This plan nor myself is not perfect. Life is meant to be all about trial and error: as I have done in my past two months of my self-improvement journey. Matter of fact, this document itself will be progressively updated over time to reflect my changing perspectives on life or a few tweaks to my goals that I have found that works better for me.

But for now, this is the system of life I will live as "a superior man": my way. I will update anyone who has read this far at the end of this year (through my new habit of a biweekly blog) on my journey to self-betterment and anything new I have learned.

For now: happy new year! Wishing you all success on your self-improvement journeys for 2023! 